Sr or concept is Docker components.
See Docker components are nothing but
components which we have in our architecture diagram.
Actually we already know them.
They are like, let me list one by one.
Docker host, Docker Engine, Docker, Client,
Docker objects like images,
Containers, Networks, volumes, and plugins.
And finally, Docker registry.
See here, Dakota hosts is nothing
but on which observer you are going to run your Docker engine.
That is nothing but your Docker host.
So in our architecture diagram,
suppose here x-ray good operating system is nothing but our docker host, Docker Engine.
So using Docker engine only,
we are going to create containers simply,
Docker Engine is the your required software.
Fine.
Then Docker Client C Here we have two types of claims,
Docker CLIA or rest EPA's.
So using these two,
either Docker CLIA or rest APIs,
we can communicate with your Docker engine so that we
can start containers or we can stop containers.
We can deploy containers,
we can remove containers.
All those actions we can perform with the help of Docker
clients find, then Docker objects.
So as of no, we know only images on containers,
but don't worry about remaining objects.
We'll discuss them later.
Fine.
Anyway, what is image see generally in
our image is nothing but an operating system, ISO image.
But here Docker image is an image only.
But it does not include colonel software or any unnecessary softwares.
Instead of that, it has only
required libraries and packages to run your particular application.
Fine.
So simply, in our Docker TMS,
Docker image is a template to create a container.
That's it. Fine.
The next one, container C,
using your Docker image,
we are creating our container.
Generally we can say that container is a Mini server or mini system.
But instead of calling Mini server or mini system in terms of Docker terminology,
we are calling that as a container.
So finally, we can say that the running status of your image,
because we are creating containers with the help of Docker image only.
That's why the Running status of your Docker images in nothing but container.
Right? Fine. Then finally, Docker history.
See Docker racer is nothing but a place where we are going to store
your Docker images are a place
from which you are going to get your required Docker images.
So initially, we will go with official Docker raised three.
That is how it dot dot dot.com. Let me show you that.
So you simply, if you search hub dot dot,
dot.com, it will go to official Docker raised to replace.
That is called simply Docker Hub.
Now let me open that. This is Docker Hub.
Now here, if you simply click on Explore,
Here we have explored.
If you click on that, it will display available images.
See that there are a lot of images.
On the bottom.
You how pages see that?
1234, right?
So these all are available images from your Docker Hub.
So initially we will take our required image from Docker Hub.
Only later we can customize that image so that we can create our custom image.
Fine. That's it.
Okay. Okay guys, thank you for watching this video.